Welcome back.
Let's do some tests that are a little bit more difficult to do we make this a little bit smaller.
Let's just have NPM run test just to have it running in the background.
That's always nice and let's go into our card or a counter button because this is a little bit more
unique right.
It's not a stateless component anymore.
We actually have a state with account and know we have a little bit more logic.
We also have this set state that is happening where we increment our state count.
And I think in the previous video I had this as a separate method that you can call in here.
For now we can just leave it the way it is.
The idea is that we want to test this state function that it actually increments because that's why
do you expect from a counter button.
So how are we going to test that as we know the very first step is to actually create a test file so
let's say counter Von
dot test that J.S. and the first thing we want to do.
Well again we've already kind of done this before so I'm going to copy from the car list test.
Let's close some of these just to clean things up
and copy and paste this now instead of card list.
We're testing the counter button and we also don't really need our mock robots anymore and this counter
button doesn't have any props that it receives.
Well it has the color prop actually so let's just do a concert mock color and we'll say that this mock
caller would just be red and we'll give it a show.
This is an actual component.
We'll give it a color of mock color.
Now here's the thing even though it's a state full component we can still do match snapshot testing
today.
I mean it's still a component.
So let's save
and now we have a new snapshot.
Perfect.
So if we ever modify counter button It's going to error out.
That's good.
Let's make this a little bit smaller.
All right let's create a another test in here.
And by the way if you want.
You could use the describe and then group all the tests together.
But I've already shown you how to do that.
You can do that on your own if you want to have more organization for your test.
Let's have a another test this time that will say we want to make sure that a correctly
increments the counter
and again our usual syntax.
And in here we can write tests.
So what can we do well first thanks let's just do a cost wrapper and this is just going to be the shallow
rendering of our component and we'll just have a mock color as well that we're going to use.
All right.
So now that we have this instead of just always typing expect and then doing this shallow we can just
say expect rapper and we can write more tests that way in here.
Let's say that we want to have rapper dot fined.
Another thing that we get with the enzyme package.
So on the wrapper just like we would in J query or query SELECT all we can do something like find where
we find let's say the I.D. And this has to be square brackets actually where we have I.D. of
by doing this.
I can now go in to my counter button and just give it an I.D. of
and will make sure that we make the snapshot pass
and now we can find this I.D. counter which is the button.
Now and we can do something called simulate and we can simulate an event such as a click event which
our counter has an on click event.
So we've just simulated a click on this counter button so if we've simulated a click on the counter
button and the state count or the count in the state is 0 we expect the count now to be 1.
So all we would need to do is say expect wrapper we can use something called state.
So this is gonna grab the state and we expect that state to equal
count of 1.
Let's see if that actually works.
Let me add some semicolons here.
All right.
Everything is passing.
But again we want to make sure that it's actually testing well you want.
Let's say this is zero now oh it's failed and let's go back again just to make sure our thing passes.
I'm going to assimilate to a click again.
So if I go No now it's expecting a count of two.
So I changed this to two hand our tests are passing.
That's pretty cool.
Now if I remove this counter
and I have two failed tests now because on top of running the snapshot which fails now because we've
changed the look of the component we've also removed the way for us to grab that component by I.D. and
you can see that method simulate is only meant to be run on a single note zero font because we weren't
able to find the I.D. of control and you can do many things here to grab an object.
I usually like having an I.D. because well just read nicely but that's pretty cool right.
We just in very simple way tested our state and once again don't get overwhelmed by all this wording
with the just cheat sheet and the enzyme documentation.
You can pick this up in a day fairly easy and I don't remember all of these.
I usually go to their documentation and say Oh yeah.
They have assimilate method.
Oh yeah.
They have the state method to grab the state and that's how you work as a developer you don't have an
encyclopedia all in your head of all the methods.
You just know that this is what enzyme and just to let me go check out their documentation and see how
I can grab state.
Oh and by the way if I add again remember this is javascript we're just going one by one.
If I add here another click and at the bottom here I run another expect I'm going to expect that it's
now a three and you see that all my tests still pass because everything happens sequentially and if
I add a another click here then I can or let's say this one is going to be a key press even if there's
a key press on there because there's no key press event.
I still expect the state of con to equal three.
There you go.
Now when you're testing there so many things that you can test for you can just keep going and keep
going and keep going.
But you want to use your time wisely.
Does this test is it enough to move on to other tests.
And it's always a tradeoff on how your project is doing.
How much other tests your project have and how much time and resources you have to write tests.
Let's do one last one.
I'm going to expect that the wrapper dot props
to let's say two equal the same color red.
Let's see if that works
all right.
I got a failed test and that's because I was just kind of guessing based on state whether it has the
props and to equal.
So let's curl up and we see that we expected color red but instead we got a ton of other props because
while we have color red but we also get children and we also have ideas as well as well as the on click
event.
Another thing we can do here is perhaps just do color let's save and now we get red which is good.
So we want to say to equal
and there you go our test pass.
We do have a console log here which is kind of annoying so let's remove that from the counter button
and there you go.
Our tests are passing and looking very very nice.
I hope that you got a general idea of how to test components and by the way this snapshot folder you're
going to actually include that in your GitHub or whatever source control you have you're going to push
that and committed to your project because any new developer that comes onto the project is going to
download the latest master and you also want to make sure that they have these snapshots of when they
run the tests and they modify a component.
These snapshots are going to check against the old version and make sure that this new new developer
doesn't change anything.
So again these things are also going to go into your source control or version control all right I'll
see you in the next video by.